---
layout: post
title: Edge Cases II
date: 2020-04-22 22:00:00
permalink: /edgecases2/
categories: 
tags: [Trans] 
last_modified_at: 
---

This is both a follow up to [*Edge Cases*](/edgecases/)and a response to [this video.](https://www.facebook.com/CMUPRISM/videos/601837133745235/) Unfortunate Facebook won't let you embed anything...

## <small>Preface</small>

*Edge Cases* was initially written to voice my concerns about how trans people are treated at the societal level, only hinting at the end that CMU was also guilty in the lack of support towards trans individuals. A week later, this video voices the concerns of trans students at CMU. I'll take it as a hint to follow up on the problems I've faced specifically at CMU. I thought this was going to be a lot shorter, but it serves to show the privileges our cisgender counterparts have go far beyond the surface level issues of bathrooms, or pronouns (which I didn't even get to cover)


In general, I usually pass fairly well. I may only be 5'4", but since I'm lucky enough to have started hormones my voice is deep enough, and my face is sharp enough to be taken as a male at first glance. However, this surface-level appearance wasn't going to help me with one of my biggest concerns heading to college: housing. I was aware of the Gender-Inclusive housing option, but didn't want to limit myself to living in that setting. Ideally I wanted to get as close to the normal college experienece as possible -- another trans guy, or at least someone who would be accepting and courteous about my gender. 

As I kept looking deeper into housing options, however, the truth was painfully clear: although most dorms advertised themselves as "Co-ed", they were split between gendered wings or floors. So even if I was able to find a trans roommate, we'd be outed immediately just by the location of our room. I am incredibly lucky to have gotten a room with a NB student in Mudge A3 -- the only dorm I'm aware of that was truly "co-ed." 

***I didn't know where else to put this sos***
I remember arriving on campus for the first time to move in. My mom pulled the rental car around through the Greek Quad, behind the PhiDelt house, to where an officer was directing traffic along the Morewood Corridor. As we crept to the front of the line, he looked inside the car, asked where I was living. 
"Mudge"
"Ok Ma'am, you and your daughter are going to head over to the right..."
This was my first interaction with any of the CMU staff and my heart dropped. All the confidence I had going into my new school had vanished. Luckily this was the first and last time I've been blatantly misgendered. Still not a great experience right off the bat but I am very fortunate to not have the problem of being misgendered daily. 
***ok its over please give suggestions on how i can integrate this better thanks***

Once I got to campus, I knew I needed to get a new ID card, change my AndrewID, and name on my documents. While the students in these interviews have described many problems in getting their documentation changed, I'm going to assume it's because they haven't been able to get anything legally changed. 

My court hearing for changing my name and gender had been the week before orientation, and the school refused to do anything until I had the legal documents in hand. However, had my court date been any later, I doubt that the school would have been willing to budge on their stance on when they would change a student's information.

I understand they may not be able to change the name on transcripts, for exmaple (my school diploma still has my name listed as "Victoria Wong"), I don't think they have any reason to not separate transcripts from the school's internal database. It is an incredibly arduous process to get one's name changed, and it simply isn't feasible for everyone. In California, it still took me getting a letter from a specialist working with transgender youth and over $400 to change my name. Students outside of California may find it difficult finding someone to write a letter of this nature, and the financial burden isn't insignificant either. 

However, I also want to make it known that even after getting your name and gender changed, there are still many problems afterwards. I went in to the HUB to get everything sorted out before classes had started, there have seemed to be a myriad of strange side effects stemming from this change.

For one, my ID card doesn't seem to work in some capacities. For the past 2 years, I have attended various career fairs, and at each and every one of them my ID has not worked once. I walk up to the doors of Wiegand Gym, and without fail, the volunteer swiping students in will swipe, pause, swipe again, ask me for my AndrewID (I'll give both my current and former, neither work), then ask if I'm really a student. On one occassion I was lucky enough to get swiped in by someone I knew, who kindly just let me in. 

Another interesting case came around the time of looking for housing for my sophomore year. All of the freshman were being directed to look on their housing portal for options staying in on-campus housing. When I opened my portal, not only could I not find where to sign up for housing, but the website told me *I wasn't currently living in CMU housing*. I found off-campus housing, so trying to get into the room lottery wasn't a concern for me, but there were things such as the room checkout form that I couldn't access since CMU didn't have me listed as living in their housing.

The last thing I plan to talk about is the bathrooms at CMU. I remember coming to campus, initially hopeful that there might be gender-neutral bathrooms but found out quickly this was not the case. Luckily, the condition of the bathrooms is better than in high school, as all of them men's stalls actually have doors. I've managed to get by the past few years by mixing a variety of tactics in how I approach restroom usage. In the buildings I frequent, I know which are the least used, where I can almost always find the bathroom empty, or at least a stall open (shoutout to the 6th floor of Wean). I've also had the fun of faking taking a shit in order to make it seem more realistic that I actually needed a stall. 

Overall I've just kind of accepted the lack of gender neutral bathrooms on campus. Realistically, part of me is subconsciously aware that ROTC will likely be similar in lacking accomodations, and building these coping strategies may help me in the long run. However, I do have to say although I don't get confused looks when I walk into the men's room, the experience is still unpleasant. I truly think the best option would be converting all bathrooms into gender-neutral options, but just having more of them would be a good start.

I think that these past two essays have really given me some insight to the struggles of transgender people at a macro level. Personally, I feel that most days, these inconveniences just become a new normal, however looking at them all written out, neatly documented gives me pause. While it's true that transgender individuals may not face outright discrimination on the scale of a decade or two ago, the lack of infrastructure to support trans people is still evident. And when all of these defecits are summed, the result is a significant mental and emotional burden for trans folks. 