---
layout: post
title: The Todoist Scheduler
date: 2021-01-09 18:00:00
permalink: /todoist/
categories: 
tags: [Personal] 
last_modified_at: 
---

I have picked up a smattering of organizational skills over the years -- starting in college I started using a little Moleskine I was given in 4th grade, but never used. I used it for tracking my schedule, to-dos, and thought processes for particularly challenging homeworks. More than an organizational tool, I also used it half as a journal, logging my frustrations with ROTC or how overworked I was on any given week. It kept me accountable for my work as well as my internal thoughts. However, a critical component to the effectiveness of this Moleskine, was that I was constantly on the move for class. It sat right next to my pencils and pens in my bag, so that any time I sat down to work I had a clear reminder to stay on track. However, with the onset of the pandemic, this routine quickly dissolved.  

Coming up on the start of the fall, I decided I needed to update my organizational tools to match the fully virtual experience of going to school. Digging through old 'Hello Internet' and 'Cortex' podcasts, featuring my favorite productivity guru CGP Grey, I decided on using Todoist and Toggl Track. The former allowed me to track all the things I needed to get done and the latter allowed me to track how much time I was spending on a given class or extracurricular. These programs were invaluable in helping keeping me on track during the pandemic, but one drawback was that each day, I would find myself going through my Todoist and blocking out time on Google Calendar. Then started my major Winter Break project -- designing a program that would schedule my Google Calendar for me using the information from my Todoist.  

Lucky for me, both had APIs that I could use to move data between Todoist and Google Calendar. Aside from the data manipulation for my HTTP requests, the scheduling of my time took heavy inspiration from 15-213's Malloc Lab. In that homework, we had to manage allocated memory -- matching allocation requests with some amount of "free blocks." Many of the ideas present, from being able to split or coalesce blocks were used in designing the Todoist Scheduler, primarily being able to coalesce information from different calendars (school vs personal calendars) and then split those blocks of free time to match the requirements necessary for a given task. One of the key distinctions, was that the allocated information was not going to be processed sequentially, but would be done according to a ordering according to due date, priority, and the estimated time to complete.  

The implementation itself wasn't difficult, but I wasn't necessarily optimizing on my first iteration. Currently I have a barebones implementation that I hope to improve on. In particular, I hope to add the following:
1. Timezones
2. Settings
3. More robust scheduling
4. Scheduled breaks
5. UI
6. Toggl Track integration
