---
layout: post
title: Laptop Repurposing
date: 2020-06-14 22:00:00
permalink: /macbook/
categories: 
tags: [] 
last_modified_at: 
---

My MacBook was a mid-2012 model, that I bought refurbished in 2014. It was my first laptop, and it lasted until 2018. It was a hard drive failure (Both my computers managed to have hard drive failure in the same year as explained [here](/comprepair/)). However, I didn't want to invest in a small, laptop-sized SSD -- that was far beyond my high-schooler budget. I figured I would just make it to the end of the year and just get a new laptop for college. 

Fast-forward 2 years, and I finally found a new purpose for this old laptop. Instead of reviving the laptop with a new hard drive, I wanted to turn it into an external display. Working from home during COVID-19, I was spoiled working at my dual-monitor desktop, and wanted to be able to take that experience back to Pittsburgh with me. Looking into it, the modifications wouldn't be too hard (the details became much more complicated). 

The first step was removing all the internals from my MacBook -- resulting in this stripped down version.


I then did some research into what LCD screen the laptop used, and ordered an appropriate video controller PCB. 

The slim profile of the MacBook was both a blessing and a curse. While it's ideal for carrying around and everyday use, some of the connections on the controller PCB wouldn't fit in the laptop case. Because the problems were coming from the VGA and an audio input, I decided I could remove both these components. After some laborious desoldering (I think that desoldering is truly one of the worst jobs), the board still works and fits much better. 

The next steps include modifying the laptop case in order to have the DC power and HDMI connections accessible and adding a heat sink. I plan on making a custom HDMI (since I don't need a 3ft or 6ft bulky cable, since it will all be internal). I've also found a slim breakout board that I could use to reroute the audio jack. Unfortunately, I haven't found a great solution to the DC power, as barrel jack connections are fairly bulky. 
