---
layout: post
title: 878
date: 2021-01-25 06:00:00
permalink: /878/
categories: 
tags: [Trans, ROTC, WritingsAndMusings] 
last_modified_at: 
---

>"If you're going through hell, keep going"

I set out on this journey 878 days ago. Almost 2 and a half years. Today, when the news broke, it was similar to election night -- not necessarily a feeling of elation, just relief. It's in part a feeling of responsibility being lifted off my shoulders. I still need to be the best I can, to represent my people the best I can, but now I don't feel alone. Finding SPARTA, reading about people in the [NYT](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/25/us/biden-transgender-ban-military.html?action=click&module=RelatedLinks&pgtype=Article) just like me -- I know I'll be able to tackle the next challenge with my brothers and sisters. 

>"I can bear any pain as long as it has meaning"

Over the course of these 2 years, I've seen my self-confidence chipped away by Trump's policy, only to have to build it back up by myself. I've pushed myself until I couldn't work any harder, only to do it again a semester later. I've learned the my own limits, what my priorities are, and maybe I've gained a better sense of what I want to do in this world. 

>"When you come out of the storm, you won’t be the same person who walked in. That’s what this storm’s all about"

The next steps probably won't be any easier. Today marks the day I get through the door, but that's not where I want my legacy to end. This ban has forced me to go after opportunities I might not have otherwise, taking classes in computer science and grand strategy. I want to shape better cybersecurity, better foreign policy, better domestic treatment of minorities. I want to work on hard problems, because I know my limits and what I'm truly capable of. 

>"I have never in my life envied a human being who led an easy life. I have envied a great many people who led difficult lives and led them well."

I think it's safe to say that these past 878 days have been some of the most challenging in my life. They've been mentally, physically, and emotionally draining. At the end of it all, even though I though about stopping, I'm glad I didn't. After my last disqualification, I searched for something to keep me rooted in my stubborn commitment to ROTC. It took the form of a quote that encapsulated how I felt about my journey:

>"It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming; but who does actually strive to do the deeds; who knows great enthusiasms, the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat"