---
layout: post
title: The Book that Broke the Camel's Back
date: 2020-08-06 06:00:00
permalink: /btbtcb/
categories: 
tags: [Personal] 
last_modified_at: 
---

Fun fact: schools are underfunded.
Ok, that wasn't very fun, and it probably wasn't all that enlightening. 

Funner fact: I had to schlep around 15 pounds (at least) of extra textbooks through middle and high school, because they couldn't afford to give kids with divorced parents a second set of books.

Now, I know that may not seem like a lot, but lets consider:
I had to carry around a whole second bag just to get them to school. 
In middle school, I would have difficulty fitting everything in my locker and we weren't allowed to bring our backpacks to class.
Backpackers aren't supposed to carry more than 20% of their bodyweight, yet, being 110 pounds, I regularly exceeded this metric without backpacks designed to carry the load on your hips.

It was this hidden weight I had to carry with me. When brought up to the school administration, it was dismissed as a problem since it didn't affect most students.
Most of my classmates and peers didn't know the school had this policy -- they had no reason to think about it.

Nobody did anything until I broke my back, of course. With a stress fracture and a note from my doctor, the school was forced to issue me another set of books.
Nobody acted until someone got hurt.

And even then, the school didn't also help other students in a similar situation. Only when they were directly challenged would they do the bare minimum. Unfortunately, for many, this isn't new. Minorities have gotten the same treatment, not just in schools, but society at large. 