---
layout: page
permalink: /ableism/
title: Ableism
---

In today's climate, we are constantly being asked to evaluate our prejudices. I've done this before. It isn't the first time I've forced myself to consider what my unconscious self *really* thinks. However, I have taken a deeper dive into one of my prejudices that I have tried my best to ignore. 

The first time I caught myself was in my junior year of high school. At the time, I had separated from my high school robotics team, and was instead focusing on a mentoring a local middle school FIRST Lego League team through my Girl Scout troop. It was small, with just 4 students. It was during this time I learned, that as much as I loved teaching, it took someone stronger than me to work with middle schoolers. For the most part, it was exhausting, but rewarding work. However, there was one girl who gave me significantly more trouble than the others. This girl was on the autistic spectrum. To what extent, I wasn't sure. However, working with her got on my nerves. It was a knee-jerk reaction, made all the more painful because she reminded me of who I was when I was her age. 

When I was in 4th grade, my parents had me tested for autism, or Asperger's syndrome at the least. The logistics of it, the fact it was happening went over my head, really. They were a shadow in my classes -- one my unperceptive 9 year old self didn't recognize. When I went to her home, for what I thought was just another therapy session, I was asked to do some spatial puzzles and Rorschach tests. At the end of it all, I was diagnosed with Asperger's Syndrome. 

Although I can never be sure, I think that this diagnosis had a myriad of knock-on effects throughout my childhood. During therapy sessions with my dad, I consistently felt like I was a scapegoat. The solutions to repairing my relationship with my dad always seemed to start with me. At 10, I was supposed to overcome my emotional and social flaws to interact with my dad, who had shown equal, if not worse, social characteristics. As I aged and my relationship with my father showed little improvemment, I came to resent this diagnosis I carried. 

I was able to grow out of most of my Asperger's related tendencies over time. How exactly this happened, or why, is beyond me. It's been harder to grow out of my relationship to Asperger's. To me, it was always framed as something wrong with me, a source of failure. That doesn't mean I'm justified in projecting those asssumptions onto others, however. In the meantime, I'm aware of the prejudices I hold, and do my best to actively acknowledge them, but ensure they don't affect my decision-making process. One of the most important things I learned in psychology in high school, is that we will all have prejudices, but that's not necessarily a bad thing, as long as we don't act on them and work to actively challenge our perception of the world. My relationship with neurotypical ableism has been complex, to say the least. Hopefully time can heal the wounds that this ableism imposed on me, and allow me to treat those around me how I should have been when I was 9. 